start: use `get-started-experiments` for GS:Experiments tutorial (#2497)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/start/experiments.md

## Running experiments

In the previous page, we learned how to tune
[ML pipelines](/doc/start/data-pipelines) and compare the changes. In this
section we'll use a
[Get Started to Experiments project](https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments)
to illustrate experimentation features in DVC 2.0

<details>

### 🆕 Click here for the instructions to install the project

These commands are run in
[`get-started-experiments`](https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments)
project. You can run these commands after cloning the repository and install the
requirements.

Please clone and create a virtual environment:

> ```console

Reviewer: console -> dvc

start each line with $ (except output) to make highlighter work

Author: I thought `dvc` is specifically for DVC commands. Thank you.

git clone https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments
cd get-started-experiments
python -m venv .venv
. .venv/bin/activate
python -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Then you can `dvc pull` to get the dataset and run the commands in this
document. For detailed information on parameters and the project structure
please refer to the
[project repository](https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments)

</details>

`dvc exp run` makes it easy to change <abbr>hyperparameters</abbr> and run a new
experiment. We'll use it to search for parameters to increase the classification
performance of our model using
[Fashion-MNIST](https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments) dataset.

In order to run a baseline experiment with the default parameters defined in
`params.yaml`:

```dvc

> dvc exp run

Reviewer: start with $

```

> ![dvc exp run result screenshot](/img/doc/start/exp-ss-90252.png)

Reviewer: here screenshot is probably not needed?

Author: I had thought something about putting the text instead but decided to put the screenshot but the reason seems not something worthwhile to remember. 😅  I'm removing it now.

> ## Running experiments

Reviewer 2: This section seems too long. Can you separate setup into its own section?

Reviewer 3: Are you referring to the stuff in the ` <details>` block @dberenbaum ? (Done per https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2491#discussion_r637487171 I think)

Seems OK to have that expandable section there, but let's try to shorten it as much as possible @iesahin ? Here's how...

Reviewer 2: I mean that `Running experiments` includes:
1. Setup
2. Running a baseline experiment
3. Showing the experiment results
4. Running an experiment with different param values

It's not that any individual topic is too long, but it might be too many concepts under one section. Can we break up into smaller sections?

Author: This is done in #2574

Author: The sections in #2574  are smaller.

In the previous page, we learned how to tune
[ML pipelines](/doc/start/data-pipelines) and

> [compare the changes](/doc/start/metrics-parameters-plots). In this section
> we'll use a
> [Get Started with Experiments project](https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments)
> to illustrate experimentation features in DVC 2.0.

Reviewer 3: > Cont https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/pull/2491#discussion_r637487008

```suggestion
[compare the changes](/doc/start/metrics-parameters-plots). Let's now
illustrate the experimentation features in DVC 2.0 with a different project
[example](https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments).
```
May not even need to link here, it can be just inside the `<details>` section below. Let's focus on concepts and explaining 🙂

Author: I'm using the links in both places in #2574.

<details>

> ### ⚙️ Click here for the installation instructions
> 
> These commands are run in the
> [`get-started-experiments`](https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments)
> project. You can run these commands after cloning the repository and installing
> the requirements.
> 
> Please clone and create a virtual environment:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### ⚙️ Click here to setup the example project.

We'll use our
[`get-started-experiments`](https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments)
repo for the usage examples in this page. It can be obtained with Git:
```

Author: Done, thank you. 👍🏼

```dvc
$ git clone https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments
$ cd get-started-experiments
$ python -m venv .venv
$ . .venv/bin/activate

> $ python -m pip install -r requirements.txt

Reviewer 3: Let's just mention/link this as a note after the code block, similar to the **Expand to download example code** block in https://dvc.org/doc/start/data-pipelines#pipeline-stages:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1477535/120762506-f0193d80-c4db-11eb-914f-12728e4b21a5.png)

Reviewer 3: BTW https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments/issues/2

Author: I replaced `python -m venv` with `virtualenv`

> ```
> 
> Then you can `dvc pull` to get the dataset and run the commands in this
> document. For detailed information on parameters and the project structure
> please refer to the
> [project repository](https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments)

Reviewer 3: ````suggestion
$ dvc pull
```

> See `dvc pull` for more details.
````

</details>

`dvc exp run` makes it easy to change <abbr>hyperparameters</abbr> and run a new
experiment. We'll use it to search for parameters to increase the classification
performance of our model using the

> [Fashion-MNIST](https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments) dataset.

Author: The emphasis to the dataset is reduced in #2574

In order to run a baseline experiment with the default parameters defined in
`params.yaml`:

```dvc
$ dvc exp run
'data/fashion-mnist/raw.dvc' didn't change, skipping
Stage 'prepare' didn't change, skipping
Stage 'preprocess' didn't change, skipping
Stage 'train' didn't change, skipping
Stage 'evaluate' didn't change, skipping
```

This resembles `dvc repro` without any command-line arguments. However, when
using `dvc repro` we need to update `params.yaml` manually, run the pipeline, if
the results are worth it commit them to DVC and Git. `dvc exp` automates this
process through its subcommands.

Let's see some metrics produced by this baseline experiment:

```dvc
$ dvc exp show --include-metrics categorical_accuracy \

>                --include-params  model.name,model.cnn.conv_units

Reviewer 2: Should we have a version of the project that has only these parameters and metrics instead of having to pass all these options to `dvc exp show`? It's a lot of parameters for the first time we introduce this command.

Reviewer 2: A couple other suggestions to make the commands and tables easier to read:
* Would `accuracy` or `acc` be sufficient?
* Is`model.name` needed here if we are only using CNN?
* Do we need the nested parameter names (can it just be `conv_units` instead of `model.cnn.conv_units`)?

Author: I've updated the repo to contain only the following params and metrics will be limited to `(val_)acc` and `(val_)loss`.

```yaml
epochs: 1
conv_units: 16
dense_units: 128
dropout: 0.5
```

I'll renew all the commands and screenshots. @dberenbaum @jorgeorpinel

```

> ![dvc exp show result screenshot](/img/doc/start/exp-ss-63714.png)

Author: I simplified the project to remove these `--include-X` options, they are told separately in #2574 as optional ways to select columns.

Note that the experiment results are identical with the values checked-out from
Git. By default each experiment is given a name automatically. We can set the
name by the `--name/-n` argument.

> Let's change the number of units in CNN and make another experiment:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's change the number of units in the CNN and make another experiment:
```

```dvc
$ dvc exp run -n cnn-32 --set-param model.cnn.conv_units=32
'data/fashion-mnist/raw.dvc' didn't change, skipping
Stage 'prepare' didn't change, skipping
Stage 'preprocess' didn't change, skipping
Running stage 'train':
> python3 src/train.py
...
```

`--set-param/-S` argument of `dvc exp run` is used to set parameters in
`params.yaml`. DVC runs _only_ the stages that depend on these parameter values.

> Parameter dependencies are defined via `dvc stage add` command and stored in

Reviewer 2: Maybe reference metrics-parameters-plots here?

`dvc.yaml`.

> <details>

Reviewer 2: This whole details section duplicates what was added above.

running experiments. The `--set-param` (or `-S`) flag sets the values for

> <abbr>parameters<abbr> as a shortcut for editing `params.yaml`.

Reviewer 2: This whole paragraph repeats what you have already explained above.

Author: This is removed in #2574.

executing. This is especially handy when you have long running experiments to
try.

We add experiments to the queue using `--queue` option of `dvc exp run`. Here,
we also set the names of experiments to observe the results clearly:

```dvc
$ dvc exp run --queue -n cnn-48 -S model.cnn.conv_units=48
$ dvc exp run --queue -n cnn-64 -S model.cnn.conv_units=64
$ dvc exp run --queue -n cnn-96 -S model.cnn.conv_units=96
$ dvc exp run --queue -n cnn-128 -S model.cnn.conv_units=128
```

Next, run all (`--run-all`) queued experiments in parallel (using `--jobs`):

```dvc
$ dvc exp run --run-all --jobs 2
...
Reproduced experiment(s): cnn-128, cnn-96, cnn-64, cnn-48
To apply the results of an experiment to your workspace run:

	dvc exp apply <exp>

To promote an experiment to a Git branch run:

	dvc exp branch <exp>
```

The command will run all queued experiments in a random order.

## Comparing many experiments

To compare all of these experiments, we need more than `diff`. `dvc exp show`
compares any number of experiments in one table:

```dvc
$ dvc exp show --no-timestamp \
               --include-params model.cnn.conv_units \
               --include-metrics categorical_accuracy
```

> ![dvc exp show screenshot](/img/doc/start/exp-ss-36794.png)

Reviewer: Let's create a ticket to explore a way to use syntax highlighter to do markup for these tables

Author: #2516

> ```dvc

Reviewer 2: If we end up introducing `dvc exp show` above, I think we could remove `dvc exp diff`. It's mostly a less powerful version of `dvc exp show`.

$ dvc exp diff
Path          Metric                Value    Change
metrics.json  PR                    0.96257  0.0024179
metrics.json  ROC                   0.99344  4.2617e-05
metrics.json  categorical_accuracy  0.9175   0.0074
metrics.json  false_negatives       927      -58
metrics.json  false_positives       710      -51
metrics.json  loss                  0.23387  -0.010393
metrics.json  precision             0.92743  0.0052689
metrics.json  recall                0.9073   0.0058
metrics.json  true_negatives        89290    51
metrics.json  true_positives        9073     58

Path         Param                 Value    Change
params.yaml  model.cnn.conv_units  32       16
```

## Queueing experiments

Instead of running the experiments one-by-one, we can define them without
executing. This is especially handy when you have long running experiments to
try.

> We add experiments to the queue using `--queue` option of `dvc exp run`. Here,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We add experiments to the queue using the `--queue` option of `dvc exp run`. Here,
```

> we also set the names of experiments to observe the results clearly:

Reviewer 2: I think the second sentence is self-evident and could be skipped to save space.

```dvc
$ dvc exp run --queue -n cnn-48 -S model.cnn.conv_units=48
$ dvc exp run --queue -n cnn-64 -S model.cnn.conv_units=64
$ dvc exp run --queue -n cnn-96 -S model.cnn.conv_units=96
$ dvc exp run --queue -n cnn-128 -S model.cnn.conv_units=128
```

Next, run all (`--run-all`) queued experiments in parallel (using `--jobs`):

```dvc
$ dvc exp run --run-all --jobs 2
...
Reproduced experiment(s): cnn-128, cnn-96, cnn-64, cnn-48
To apply the results of an experiment to your workspace run:

	dvc exp apply <exp>

To promote an experiment to a Git branch run:

	dvc exp branch <exp>
```

> The command will run all queued experiments in a random order.

Reviewer 2: This again seems unnecessary since we already state above that this command will run all experiments. Is the ordering so confusing that it needs to be mentioned here? I would think many people wouldn't notice or care, and people familiar with parallel processing would expect random ordering. It's not much to keep if you think it will avoid confusion, but it's all about trying to keep this doc concise.

> ## Comparing many experiments

Reviewer 2: It's awkward and redundant to keep this section as is if the command is now already introduced above.

Author: It's removed in #2574, much simpler now.

To compare all of these experiments, we need more than `diff`. `dvc exp show`

> compares any number of experiments in one table:

Reviewer 2: This sentence sounds like it's introducing `dvc exp show`, but it has already been shown above.

```dvc
$ dvc exp show --no-timestamp \
               --include-params model.cnn.conv_units \
               --include-metrics categorical_accuracy
```

![dvc exp show screenshot](/img/doc/start/exp-ss-36794.png)

We can see that `cnn-128` performed best in `categorical_accuracy`.

> See `dvc exp show --help` for more info on its options.

## Persisting experiments

The metrics to optimize are usually domain or problem dependent. In these
experiments we are trying to optimize for `categorical_accuracy`. Let's keep
experiment with the highest `categorical_accuracy` score and ignore the rest.

> `dvc exp apply` rolls back the <abbr>workspace<abbr> to the specified

Reviewer 2: In retrospect, I'd prefer to introduce `dvc exp branch` here instead of `dvc exp apply`, but that's best left for a separate issue. cc @jorgeorpinel

regular pipeline by committing it in our Git branch:

```dvc
$ git add dvc.lock params.yaml logs.csv metrics.json
$ git commit -m "Preserve the experiment with 128 Conv Units"

[main 84d1c8f] Preserve the experiment with 128 Conv Units
 4 files changed, 21 insertions(+), 21 deletions(-)
 rewrite logs.csv (91%)
```

> ## Sharing experiments

Reviewer 2: This whole section needs to be revised or removed, but again this is a separate issue (see https://github.com/iterative/dvc.org/issues/2474).

</details>

> Experiments that have not been made persistent will not be stored or shared

Reviewer: ^^^^ a few lines about - fix code block, lines should start with $

Where did all the experiments go? By default, `dvc exp show` only shows
experiments since the last commit, but don't worry. The experiments remain
<abbr>cached</abbr> and can be shown or applied. For example, use `-n` to show
experiments from the previous _n_ commits:

```dvc
$ dvc exp show -n 2 --no-timestamp \
               --include-params model.cnn.conv_units \
               --include-metrics categorical_accuracy
```

![dvc exp show screenshot](/img/doc/start/exp-ss-68591.png)

Eventually, old experiments may clutter the experiments table.

`dvc exp gc` removes all references to old experiments:

```dvc
$ dvc exp gc --workspace
...
Removed 5 experiments. To remove unused cache files use 'dvc gc'.
$ dvc exp show -n 2 --no-timestamp \
               --include-params model.cnn.conv_units \
               --include-metrics categorical_accuracy
```

![dvc exp show screenshot](/img/doc/start/exp-ss-32408.png)

> `dvc exp gc` only removes references to the experiments, not the cached
> objects associated to them. To clean up the cache, use `dvc gc`.

## Going Further

You can continue to experiment with
[the project](https://github.com/iterative/get-started-experiments). There are

> many parameters available to modify, e.g., `noise` or `units` in Dense layer of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
many parameters available to modify, e.g., `noise` or `units` in the Dense layer of
```

the network. Please see the `README.md` file of the project for these. Don't
forget to [notify us](https://dvc.org/chat) if you happen to find good

> parameters.

Reviewer 2: Is this to encourage community engagement?

Reviewer 2: Just curious.

Author: Yes. I would like the users to play with the repo and come up with higher metrics just using the hyperparameters. We can have a _hall of fame_ somewhere maybe.

Reviewer 4: Good idea @iesahin !!

Author: I removed this part in #2574 because the repo is very simple now. Maybe we can have multiple versions in the future.
